# NeuroAI24_SincereWindflower
It is widely known that neurons in the motor cortex encode movement related variables, such as position and velocity (kinematics). However, there have been different models and hypotheses regarding the underlying dynamics of the neural space encoded by these neurons on a population level. Churchland et al have proposed that the underlying population dynamics are governed by rotational basis [1], however this hypothesis has been contested and there is still a lack of understanding on what the motor neurons are encoding [2]. We propose to train different RNNs (ie., GRU and LSTM) architectures to perform a random reach task, decode kinematic variables from their latent spaces, and compare the underlying dynamics of their latent spaces. With this study we hope to show that different systems can encode similar kinematic information without necessarily having the same dynamics. Thus, we hypothesise that the different RNNs will yield different dynamical systems from which the same movement variables can be decoded from. 

We propose to use LSTM and GRU since they address the vanishing and exploding gradient problem in a fundamentally different manner. Both use the cell state to keep long-term memory, but LSTM has a more complex architecture compared to GRU. It consists of three gates: the input gate, forget gate, and output gate. These gates control the flow of information through the cell state, allowing the LSTM to remember or forget information over time. In contrast, the GRU abandons LSTM's context state information and only keeps the current state information. Regarding our task, we hypothesise that due to the difference of these models on retaining context information they will result in different dynamical systems.

We will train the two recurrent neural networks (RNNs) to learn motor skills by setting up a MotorNet Random Target (RT) task. After the task is complete, we will extract the latent activity of each RNN, and perform two analyses: 1) Decode the kinematics (position and velocity) from the latent representation with a linear decoder, and 2) Determine the similarity of the underlying dynamics using DSA. For each trial, we will extract the dynamic similarity score, the error between the linearly decoded kinematics, and the error of the kinematics during the task. Then, we will perform a statistical comparison between the models for each metric. 

[1] M. M. Churchland et al., “Neural population dynamics during reaching,” Nature, vol. 487, no. 7405, pp. 51–56, Jul. 2012, doi: 10.1038/nature11129.
[2] M. A. Lebedev, A. Ossadtchi, N. A. Mill, N. A. Urpí, M. R. Cervera, and M. A. L. Nicolelis, “Analysis of neuronal ensemble activity reveals the pitfalls and shortcomings of rotation dynamics,” Sci Rep, vol. 9, no. 1, p. 18978, Dec. 2019, doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-54760-4.
